Python vs C Memory Model

In Python, when creating a variable like x = 42, Python automatically and invisibly declares it
as the appropriate variable type. However, in C, the programmer must explicitly define what 
type of variable x is before assigning a value to it. Without this, the code will not function 
correctly. Additionally, C requires the use of semicolons after each completed line of code, 
while Python does not. Another task that Python will do automatically is returning something 
after a function is called; Python will return None if no return statement is given. In C, 
however, I am predicting that the programmer has to explicitly state that there either isn't a 
return (void), or explicitly give the return statement. Without it, there may either be an 
error, the function may not work properly with no way of knowing, or there just may be no return 
or confirmation that the function was executed properly. A systems programmer must understand 
memory segments because C is much closer to the hardware, so they need to worry about factors 
like speed and performance when designing a program. A Python developer, on the other hand, does
not need to worry about these factors, because Python handles the system automatically.


Memory Observations

Each memory address was 16 digits, with 4-6 leading zeros for each. The data segment variables
were the highest, with twelve digits (excluding leading zeros). The stack variables were the
lowest overall, with only ten digits. I also noticed that after running the code multiple times,
the data segment variables' addresses did not change. However, the stack variables' and heap 
variables' addresses changed every time. In the stack, memory is automatically allocated when the 
function is called, and automatically deleted when the function finishes. I could call the
address for a stack variable without allocating it myself. In the heap, however, memory is
dynamically allocated, meaning it must be specifically assigned and deleted by the programmer.
This means that I had to use the functions malloc() and free() for the heap, but not for the
stack variables. Understanding where these variables live helps me to better understand local
and global variables; I knew that local variables only existed in their function, but when 
learning Python, I didn't understand that the reason behind it was memory allocation. Now, I
understand that local variables are important because it doesn't use up memory that isn't
necessary. This also shows why it's important to not just make everything a global variable,
as that could quickly use up memory.